(logo whooshes)
All right. Now, we're gonna get into
actually emailing the password reset token to the user
so they can go ahead and reset it.
And that's gonna happen inside of here.
So in order to send the email,
we need to write a little bit of custom,
node.js code, node.j
What am I saying?
It's custom node code.
So to do that, we'll go into our lib folder here.
And we're creating a new file called mail.ts
And then we create what's called a transporter.
A transporter is going to allow us to hook up to
an SMTP API, and send out emails.
Now, when you're doing sending of email in development
it's best to use, what's called a fake surface
or a Mailtrap or something like that.
In the past I've used Mailtrap,
which is really good if you've got a team.
It's a paid,
has a really good free option
but also has a paid option, which is pretty nifty.
And then lately I've been using this a ethereal.email
'cause you don't even have to sign up for the thing.
It just gives you a set of username and password,
and you can go ahead and use it.
The only difference between these traps
and fake SMTP and production, when you deploy this thing,
is that you'll need to sign up for a transactional email.
Servers like Postmark or SendGrid or something like that.
And those will allow you to send actual or real emails
to your users, instead of just trapping them
as fake, 'cause you you never wanna send real email
in development, just because you might accidentally
send them to real customers and things get confusing.
So, that's great.
So we're gonna go to ethereal.email
and you can go ahead and click on 'Create Ethereal Account.'
Boom!
And then it just gives you
a username and a password, which is great.
So we need to put this username and your password
in our environmental file.
Because you don't wanna hardcode these values
both because they're different
in development and production.
And second, 'cause like you shouldn't have
sensitive information like that in your code files,
should always be an environmental variable file.
So we have here, if you look we've got our mail host,
our port, our user, and our password.
These user and password needs to be replaced
with these values right here.
So go ahead and grab that sucker.
Boom!
And then the password.
Goes in here.
And then we need to restart our application.
So go ahead and kill it, the backend and re-run it.
And then what that will do is, it will put our new values
into our environmental variables.
Then we'll go back to mail and create our transport.
So in here, our transport will hook up
to our SMTP credentials.
So say, const transport is equal to,
actually,
(chuckles)
it's kind of funny
because they give you the Nodemailer package
configuration right here.
You could just copy paste it.
Ours is gonna be a little bit different.
So, I'll do it with you here.
So I'll say, createTransport.
And you can see that it wants to auto import it
straight from the Nodemailer package.
That's what we use to send email and nodejs.
So go ahead and do that.
And you see it's importing it right there.
Then to that, we have a host.
And the host will be process.env.MAIL_HOST,
and then the port is MAIL_PORT,
Then we have an auth inside of there,
which has our user.
And MAIL_USER,
and our password,
just MAIL_PASS.
Make sure you do PASS, and not PASSWORD.
That's a common one that could get you.
All right. Next thing we need
is a little function that's gonna template out
some emails for us.
So, there is entire frameworks out there
for designing and templating, and rendering out HTML emails.
But honestly, all we need is just a simple couple of lines,
and we don't necessarily need something like that.
So we're just gonna have a function called,
makeANiceEmail.
And that takes in some text, and that text will be a string.
So we just type it there, that's part of TypeScript.
This part is TypeScript.
And then we will return backticks.
And then in there you wanna div, expand abbreviation.
That doesn't work.
It's gotta,
you gotta type it like a sucker.
Ah, there we go. That worked.
And in here, we'll give it some inline styles,
say border, 1px,
and maybe we'll do these each on their own lines.
So it's a little bit easier to write.
1px solid black, padding 20px,
font-family;
sans-serif.
Line height is two, and font size is 20px.
Then inside of this div, you want an h2 tag.
Say, Hello There.
And then you want a paragraph that has the text
that has passed in.
And then you can sign it off with another paragraph,
that says, a kissy emoji, Wes Bos
and put your own name in there.
Finally, we need an actual function
that will send the email.
So, we'll say async function
sendPasswordResetEmail.
And that will take in the resetToken,
which is a string,
and a to, which is also a string.
That's an email address.
And then inside of there,
we will email them a token.
Email the user a token.
So let's say, const,
the info that comes back is called
await transport.sendMail.
And the email that we will send takes an object,
to, well the to, is to whatever gets passed into this one.
We're gonna be using it via right here.
We have the arguments for the actual user here.
So we'll pass those into that function.
So, to.
From is going to be wes@wesbos.com
or whatever you want.
And the subject is going to be your password reset token.
And the HTML of the email is going to be
makeANiceEmail.
And you pass the one argument
of makeANiceEmail, which is the text,
and that will be backticks.
And we'll say right here,
Your Password Reset Token is here!
And then give it a new line.
Says, a href is equal to.
And then, Click Here to reset.
And then the href is going to be
process.env.FRONTEND_URL.
Remember in our dot env, we've coded this here
because we're in the backend right now.
We need to know where the front end is actually running.
So we have FRONTEND_URL,
and then it is forward slash reset.
And then the query per rem
is gonna be token is equal to,
and then we will interpolate the reset token
that was passed into this email right here.
Okay. So that's going so far.
Let's see, it's yelling at us for something here.
Unsafe assignment of any value,
make a nice email.
Oh, you know what?
We forgot to type the returned value of this.
That's one thing.
That wasn't the issue.
Let's go into the next little TypeScript issue that we have.
All right.
We've got some red underlines here.
Let's take a quick look at why that's happening.
So the error is, unsafe assignment value of any.
Okay. So it's mad that the send mail function
is returning, any.
And, any in TypeScript is sort of the like important.
If you think of CSS where you do bang important,
you're not supposed to use it,
but it's there in case you need it.
So these types for Nodemailer are not very good.
It should be returning
like a custom type of Nodemailer response.
So what we could do here is,
we just like make a quick little interface.
Mail response.
And then I don't know what comes back
from send mail, but most just maybe it's a message
that is a string, a lowercase string.
And then we could do info,
as a mail response.
And then here we can say
as MailResponse.
And here we don't even need,
I don't think we need that.
Okay. So that is one way to get around it.
When we consolelog this info,
we'll be able to update, what it is actually returning.
If you don't see those red underlines,
then that's totally fine because that means
that Nodemailer has updated its typings,
in the place where we've installed them.
So, once we send the mail,
we have this info variable here.
And we can just go ahead and log the info.
And then I believe we can go back to Keystone.
And we've gotta export this thing.
So, just export it, export in front of it.
What does it mad at now?
Missing return type on function.
Oh.
(laughing)
That's the thing about TypeScript.
It always yells at you.
This will return not void.
It's yelling at us for that.
We want a promise.
Is eventually returns a void.
There we go.
Okay. So if you're new to TypeScript,
what we just did there is we said,
expect a string coming in, expect a string coming in.
Expect this function to return a promise,
which will eventually return nothing, a void.
That's what a void is.
And then the other thing we did here
is we created a custom type, or interface here,
that, because send mail returns any,
we just made our own custom response, called MailResponse
and that made it happy.
So now if we go to our Keystone.args here,
we were console logging the args.
What did those args look like?
Is there still one in here?
There we go.
Looks like that.
So we can go in here.
We'll say, send the email.
So we'll say, await send, what was it called?
PasswordResetEmail.
And that needs to be auto-imported.
There we go.
And you see how it's like red still,
it's because it expected to arguments,
but got zero, right?
We have to pass it, the first argument which is,
or we can even see it here just by bringing that up.
The reset token, so that is args.token.
And then the second argument is who is it gonna be sent to.
The to string.
Well, that is args.identity
Let's go ahead and try it.
First, just kill your process
and restart the backend process.
And once that starts
we should be able to reset our password.
And that should then send an email.
So I'm just gonna triple check.
If you wanna double check your backend is up and running,
just refresh your localhost 3000.
In there, all that it's up and running.
Go ahead and request a reset.
Oh, one thing we didn't do there is
we didn't put a loading state on that.
So, once I clicked it,
I didn't know what was happening.
So we'll go back and put a loading state
on that in just a second,
but it looks like it worked.
Looks like we got, this is our response right here.
And if we go to our email inbox,
so open up mailbox.
If you need to sign in to your email inbox
you just use the same username password and your dot env.
There it is.
There's our password reset token.
And this is hello there.
Your password reset token is here.
Click here to reset.
Let's click it.
There we go.
Then I'm gonna go ahead and try to reset the whole thing.
I'm gonna reset my password.
Boom! Success.
You can now sign in.
So that is the end-to-end password reset flow is done.
A couple little housekeeping items
before we're finished is,
first, this is the info that we get back
from an accepted,
first, this is the response that we get back.
So remember we made that interface in our mail.ts.
We can go and update that.
Here we go.
This right here, you can just paste that in there.
And actually here's a little
thing I like to do is json to typescript type.
There is a really, here we go.
MakeTypes.
J-V-I-L-K.com forward slash, MakeTypes.
You give it json and it will spit out the type for you.
So we can,
and if you don't know what types are, don't worry.
I've got a TypeScript course coming up.
But you can just play along here.
We just have add to JSON.stringify,
and what we have there.
And then you can actually just run,
oops.
Copy around that hole.
And then if you paste that in here,
and we'll name this, what is our type here?
MailResponse.
And then click on generate.
You'll see,
it will give us
the interfaces.
We can paste in right here.
Oops.
That's kind of interesting.
It did a subtype of envelope.
And that makes sense because
the envelope has a 'to' and a 'from' property.
So that's nice.
And that will then give us IntelliSense typing and whatnot.
That's the proper type for that.
Okay. So that's the first thing.
The next thing that we need,
I wanna do here, is just a little helper function
that will give us a URL to the mail that was sent.
So, if we go here, we say console.log info.
What we can say is, if,
delete that,
process.env.MAIL_USER.includes ethereal,
E-T-H-E-R-E-A-L dot email.
So if we are using Ethereal email,
we can use this little helper function
in Nodemailer to actually give us the URL
directly to the thing that was sent.
And in here we can just say console.log.
I like to use a mail emoji.
Message Sent.
Preview it at,
and then there is a method in Nodemailer called
getTestMessageUrl,
and you pass it that info variable.
Now try to import that sucker.
There we go.
And what's it yelling at me?
That should be fine.
Now watch this.
Watch if we kill it and restart it.
And try to request a password reset again.
Oops. Network error.
That's 'cause it hasn't started yet.
Let's try it again.
Success. There we go.
See, look at this.
Now Message Sent! Preview it at,
and it gives you this nice long URL to Ethereal email.
You can just click it and then you're able to see.
So there's no trying to like line up,
the email that was just sent
and checking timestamps and whatnot.
It'll just give you a link directly to it
which is really slick.
It looks like it's just taking like the sent ID
from the email and you can display it right in here.
So, that is the entire password reset flow.
Hopefully you enjoyed that.
And I'll catch you in the next one.